Oracle Application Installation (ORAPPI) Builder
================================================
http://www.hoekstra.co.uk

[ $Header: $ ]

Table of Contents:
1. A What?
2. What does it do?
3. The Future
4. Contact
5. Installation
6. Licensing

1. A What?
----------
Yet another noun-soup project name. This is a consequence of modern life where
a highly specific mechanism cannot be described with a single word. We are
nowadays forced to concatenate nouns to make up for this linguistic deficiency
and end up with a result that sometimes sounds very impressive and at other
times silly. We then take this noun-soup 'thing' and create a corny acronym.
Here is ours: ORAPPI.

Why was it created? This project stems from countless hours spend manually
creating installation scripts off development environments. Due to the manual
coding, a problem would inevitably creep in somewhere. Once the hand-crafted
installation was created and delivered to the customer, the customer still had
a fair amount of guesswork to do to make the installation work on his target
platform environement. And things then went wrong at great expense.

Using vendor-specific tools also had its drawbacks, such as database exports
that were not compatible between various versions of Oracle and or various
versions of Operating Systems, or did not fit on the particular disk and
table space configurations. The result is also not in a human-readable form -
this is important.

2. What does it do?
-------------------
This project creates an installation based on an existing database application.
The resulting installation can build the application on a different UNIX-based
Oracle server. The installation is in the form of a series of human-readable
scripts that can be viewed using any text viewing or editing tool.

The installation scripts are written in KORN and use SED and AWK and Oracle's
SQLPLUS. Delivering the installation in a script form has some advantages:
 - The operation of the installation is highly visible and open to inspection
 - Configuration changes are easily made with a text editor

The resulting installations run on Oracle 8i, 9i, and Oracle 10g RDBMS's that
are hosted on UNIX-type platforms.

The scripts can also be used as a text-based manifest of the development
database for use in version control systems.

3. The Future
-------------
In the ideal world, all UNIX system admins would understand Perl, and the
resulting installation scripts would all be written in Perl mixed with SQL.
Probably not, though.

A nice X-GUI and a port for creating a mySQL-based installations is on the
cards.


4. Contact
----------
It is easy to get in contact with the code originators if you need help or if
you find bugs that need to be reported. Or if you have suggestions to improve
any aspect of the package. Contributors of code that helps furthering the aims
of this project are of course most welcome!

E-mail: gerrit@hoekstra.co.uk

Web: You can download the most recent version of this application from
http://www.hoekstra.co.uk

5. Installation
---------------
For detailed instructions on how to build an installation based on an
existing database application, refer to the INSTALL document in the ./build
directory.

For detailed instructions on how to install the delivered application on your
database server, refer to the INSTALL document in the ./install directory.

6. Licensing
------------
Copyright (c) 1999-2005 Gerrit Hoekstra. All Rights Reserved.
This program is free software; you can redistribute it and or modify it under
the same terms of the GPL. See the file COPYING.
